General Rules:

1. A hidden driver should be compiled such that the resulting PE sections are page aligned to provide maximal performance. 
   This is to keep code and data on separate pages as much as possible.

2. Hidden drivers MUST be totally non paged.

3. An effort needs to be made to keep data out of ccode sections for maximal performance. Use #pragma data_seg(".data")
   to explicitly force global data into the .data section.

4. With regards to global data access, here is 1 possible scheme. 

   This scheme assumes that the hidden driver / pages are
   capable of following a strict protocol with respect to global data access. ALL global data accesses in the driver must 
   follow this protocol.

	The protocol for accessing global (non stack data) is as follows...
	1. The driver must raise the IRQL to DISPATCH_LEVEL.
	2. The driver must explicitly flush the TLB entry for the page containing the global variable using the invlpg instruction.
	3. The driver is allowed to perform the global data access.
	4. The driver must explicitly flush the TLB entry for the page containing the global variable using the invlpg instruction.
	5. The driver lowers the IRQL to the previous level before it was raised.

    The additional restrictions also apply:
	1. No global data can be passed to kernel API functions. When calling an API, global data, must be copied into local storage
       on the stack and passed into the API function.

	This scheme is preferable for hiding a driver that one has explicit control over (meaning, the driver is capable of following
	the protocol). It is clearly not acceptable for hiding an arbitrary driver since there is no way to force it to follow the protocol.
	For those cases, where it is necessary to hide data where one has minimal control over the data access pattern, a second scheme may be
	employed like using a debugging based approach.
	

NOTE: Hiding code segments incurs a minimal performance hit with very few page faults, however, hiding data pages will always incur 
the performance hit of approximately 1 page fault per access.  This is because in hiding data, we cannot take advantage of the split
TLB architecture and the single DTLB must be kept empty to ensure that data accesses are properly filtered depending on who generated
them.


-------------------------------------------------------

Update Notes:
1. Added code to remove IDT write protection (if it exists).
2. Improved the PE parsing code so we can hide all sections in drivers now.

