Morphine v2.7
=============

Morphine as a part of Hacker Defender rootkit (http://rootkit.host.sk) 
by Holy_Father <holy_father@phreaker.net> && Ratter/29A 
Copyright (c) 2000,forever ExEwORx
betatested by ch0pper <THEMASKDEMON@flashmail.com>
birthday: 03.10.2004
home: http://www.hxdef.org, http://hxdef.net.ru, http://hxdef.czweb.org, 
      http://rootkit.host.sk
mirror: http://hxdef.xtremescripter.de
licence: this program is open source under GNU GPL
update: 22.07.2005: translate into C++ by ashkBiz <ashkbiz@yahoo.com>
        whole CPP project is in CPP directory

        Morphine is very unique application for PE files encryption. Unlike 
other PE encryptors and compressors Morphine includes own PE loader which 
enables it to put whole source image to the .text section of new PE file. This 
one is very powerful because you can compress source file with your favourite
compressor like UPX and then encrypt its output with Morphine. Another powerful
thing here is polymorphic engine which always creates absolutely different 
decryptor for the new PE file. This mean if your favourite trojan horse is 
detected by an antivirus you can encrypt it with Morphine. You will not get 
the virus alert again. 
        What's more, Morphine allows you to encrypt one file several times!
But be sure you're using -b option (see usage) when doing this. Unlike others 
Morphine enlarges your executable by not more than 5kb (this is not true for 
morphined DLLs without using -d option, see below)! Morphine supports most 
of PE files and many of other PE encryptor/packers. Also one of the greatest 
things here is that it is an open source project. In these days antivirus 
companies sniff around our site waiting for new version of morphine to add 
new decoder into their databases. But you can simply make your own undetectable 
version. Because new PE file has random loader it is possible the loading will 
take more time than you want to (especially when encrypting bigger files). 
If this occurs simply delete the long time loading PE file and try to build it 
again. And be careful with morphined DLLs. This can really slow down final 
execution.
        Whole Morphine code is compatible with Delphi 6 and 7 compiler. 
Morphined files can be executed on Windows with NT kernel only.



Usage
-----

Usage: morphine.exe [-q] [-d] [-b:ImageBase] [-o:OutputFile] InputFile
  -q             be quiet (no console output)
  -d             for dynamic DLLs only
  -i             save resource icon and XP manifest
  -a             save overlay data from the end of original file
  -b:ImageBase   specify image base in hexadecimal string
                 (it is rounded up to next 00010000 multiple)
  -o:OutputFile  specify file for output
                 (InputFile will be rewritten if no OutputFile given)

Examples:
1) morphine.exe -q c:\winnt\system32\cmd.exe
 rewrite cmd.exe in system directory and write no info

2) morphine.exe -b:1F000000 -o:newcmd.exe c:\winnt\system32\cmd.exe
 create new file called newcmd.exe based on cmd.exe in system dir
 set its image base to 0x1F000000 and display info about processing

3) morphine.exe -d static.dll
 rewrite static.dll which is loaded only dynamically

4) morphine.exe -i -o:cmdico.exe c:\winnt\system32\cmd.exe
 create new file called cmdico.exe based on cmd.exe in system dir
 save its icon and or XP manifest in resource section

5) morphine.exe -i -a srv.exe
 rewrite srv.exe, save its icon, XP manifest and overlay data



Versions
--------

Better DLL support in Morphine 2.7 should make morphined DLL work also 
on NT4.


TLS bugfix number 2 is Morphine 2.6.


Version 2.5 fixes the bug in TLS support.


Better support for VB programs together with end of file overlay support 
was added to Morphine 2.4.


There were two serious bugz in previous releases. Morphine 2.3 fixs both
of them.


Version 2.2 supports Mew 11 SE 1.2 exe packer.


Version 2.1 supports FSG 2.0 exe packer.


Version 2.0 implements random secondary encryption routine and adds enables 
saving resource for DLLs. Last improvement in this version is a fake loop 
in DynLoader which protects morphine files against Norton AntiVirus.


Since 1.9 you can save first icon directory and XP manifest in resource 
section using -i switch. 


Polycode is now smaller then ever - only 16 instructions - in version 1.8. 
Smaller polycode makes possible smaller final executable.


Version 1.7 implements variable key length for second encryption routine.


Version 1.6 is about fucking KAV :). Well, not only fucking KAV, also 
second decrypting unit is before loader.

Version 1.5 is about improved polymorphic code. It's much more easier to 
write own polycode now. Also it's hard to detect for AV.


Since 1.4 you can morphine DLL. There is a new option -d which isn't used by 
default. There are two ways how to import functions from DLL. For static import
PE loader use import section in PE file. For dynamic import coder have to use 
functions like LoadLibrary and GetProcAddress. Many of DLLs are loaded only
dynamically. But this can change in future because any program can load DLL 
statically. If you know your morphined DLL will never be loaded statically 
you can use (and it's better to use) -d option (morphined DLLs without -d 
can be much bigger than original).


Since 1.3 we use smaller polymorphic loader. This is good for final executable
which is less than 5kb bigger than original file. Also source code is more 
transparent.


Since 1.2b morphined file has no .data section and the whole PE file is 
somewhere in .text section. Reason for this is that you could easily find 
old PE signatures and then find a key for decoding.


Modifications by Jan Klaassen for 1.2a (cut&paste from mail):

Somewhere on a forum I read your solutions for getting around a pattern
recognition of AntiVirus in "Morphined" executables. The pattern "FF2534" was
mentioned, but I think the AV also used the ..0000 bytes in front of it, or
the code after it, since the AV was not triggered if the pattern mentioned was
somewhere else in the code.

I have made a small modification to the Morphine source code. I thought that
maybe you or someone you know might be interested in these changes to get
around AV recognition. I moved the jumps to the import section into the
initcode (at the end) and implemented several (random) variants for the jumps.
The jumps are coded seperately and are placed inside your rubbish. :)

The initcode changed in the following way:
- The addresses of the imported function in @DynLoaderCaller now get fixed-up
with the location of the import jmps at the end of the initcode
- The addresses of the import jmps get fixed-up with the location of the
thunks (hint and name) of the imported function in the import section.

The modified morphine and morphined exes seem to run fine on either Windows XP
SP1 and Windows 2000 Adv.Server. (All morphined exes crash on Windows 98
Second Edition.)



Files
-----

        original archive contains these files:

morphine.exe     23 360         compiled and MEWed Morphine
morphine.dpr    172 870         source code of Morphine
morphine.txt      7 666         this readme

CPP\
Morphine.exe     34 397         compiled and MEWed c++ Morphine 
morphine.cpp    298 692         source code of c++ Morphine
Morphine.dsp      4 428         MSVS file
Morphine.dsw        539         MSVS file
morphine.sln        905         MSVS file 
morphine.vcproj   3 163         MSVS file
